I created the separate component a of course to practice creating your own components but B also because
it really is the core philosophy of react to split your app into smaller pieces.
Of course it's up to you how small you want to split it.
Every list item for example could all be its own component and there would be nothing wrong with that.
The idea simply is to have small manageable code files and later once we add more logic to the app so
sorted we can all interact with it and we changed the the number of goals for example up on a button
click and so on.
We of course want to be able to manage a lot of the logic in the goal list component and not an average
components.
So really splitting it into components has the idea of separating concerns of keeping your files small
focused and manageable which if you're working in bigger projects is a huge win because it makes it
much easier to manage and work in such bigger projects.
Now thus far everything in our app is hard coded though.
Now a more realistic would be that lets say our goal list is managed here it aptly s as data and we
want to render the goal list H Tim all items or J is X items based on that data.
Now I'll manage it here in app J.S. simply because later I will add another component here that helps
us create new goals.
But for now let's just add a normal constant here to this functional component because it is a normal
javascript function.
Of course you can do more than just return J as X and this constant here will have my course goals.
You can name it however you want and this will be an array and is array each goal can be a javascript
object created here with the object literal notation of course you could also create your own class
or constructor function and instantiate that to create such an object.
Now lets say every goal has an idea.
C.G. one for course course call 1 and then has some text let's say and the text here is simply the text
I have hardcoded here.
Finish the course.
So.
Copy that and at this here and I'll splits across multiple lines to make it easier to read because I'll
not just have one goal but free.
So the ideas are CGI too and set you free let's say.
And now I will just copy all that text here into my objects here in app J.S..
Also that last text like this and there I can now also get rid of that ampersand thing here we don't
need that here we can output the text like this and react will render it properly.
So now we have the core skills array and my idea now is that in the goal list component of these goals
that data here should in the end be output.
So it should be output dynamically in this component in the goal list component instead of being hardcoded
so we can remove this code here.
Now that leaves us with two problems.
Number one how can we output a list of data dynamically in J as x.
But more important than that at the moment how can we get that list of data which is defined in the
app component into the goal list component.
Well let's focus on that first.
Because without that we can't focus on the other problem.
We can pass data from component to component with a concept called Props short for properties we can
define our own.
You could say attributes which are these props on our own components.
So for example here on goal list you could say we have items attribute or goals attribute.
Totally up to you.
I'll go with goals here and that gold's attribute or prop is the common term.
So does gold's prop then pass this data to that component.
Now for dead.
I don't use a string here which I want to pass down but instead I want to pass down my javascript data
structure.
Dear Ray here and for dad here actually we use a no special syntax and J as X we use single opening
and closing curly braces.
Looks like we're creating a jobs with object here but we are not.
If you do this instead of J is X which I am doing your.
That's J is X then this means you wanna merge your J is X code with some javascript expression in the
end.
And here we can point at core skills that is a valid javascript expression.
We're just pointing at a constant and what Disneyland means is that react will pass course goals here.
The value stored in is constant in this case this array into this place of J is x.
In this case into this prop therefore so goals will be a prop that holds a reference to this array now.
Now inside of goal list we can now receive that gold prop.
So let's go to goal list and see how that works in goal list.
We have a function right.
A functional component.
Now this function right now doesn't get any parameters.
We can change this.
We can receive a proper parameter here every function that is used as a react component which means
it returns J as X also receives props.
This is object passed to your react functional component automatically by react and it's an object that
bundles all the props you passed to the component.
So in our case goals is to single prop we have.
So here we will have an object which has a property with the name of goals that holds the value passed
to that prop so in other words.
Here I could console log prop start goals dot goals because I named my prop goals here.
If you chose a different name here which is perfectly fine you have to use the different name here.
Now if we save that we won't see our goals anymore at the moment but if we open to developer tools we
see the array being logged here and dad log is coming from goal list line 6 as you see which of course
is this log here and there we see our goals data which means yes it arrives successfully instead of
the goal list component.
The concept of props is a super important concept in react because this is what allows you to pass data
from component a the app component to component B the goal list component.
In this case.
Now let's have a look at how we can output a list of data dynamically in J is X because here we got
a list of goals and array of goals and we want to output this as list items here in our unordered list.